---
layout: news
title: Akka Http 2.4.11.2 Security Patch Released!
author: Johannes Rudolph
short: Akka Http 2.4.11.2 Security Patch Released!
---

Dear hakkers,

We announce the immediate availability of the second security patch for the experimental Akka HTTP that was part of the
2.4.x development series. It contains an important security fix for a vulnerability that affects all Akka HTTP
applications that use the routing DSL. The vulnerability allows a remote attacker to crash an Akka HTTP server with a
simple request so it is highly recommended to update to Akka HTTP 2.4.11.2 as soon as possible.
See the [security announcement](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-http/10.0.6/security/2017-05-03-illegal-media-range-in-accept-header-causes-stackoverflowerror.html)
for more details.

Please note that for the latest developments of Akka HTTP you should switch to track its 10.0.x series - we strongly
suggest upgrading to that version since it is the stable and maintained version of Akka HTTP, while the 2.4.11 version
will only be receiving critical security updates for a while.

### Compatibility notes

We strongly suggest upgrading to Akka 10.0.6 or later. Akka 10.0.x is backwards binary compatible with previous 10.0.x
releases and Akka 2.4.x. This means that the new JARs are a drop-in replacement for the old one (but not the other
way around) as long as your build does not enable the inliner (Scala-only restriction). It should be noted that Scala
2.12.x is is not binary compatible with Scala 2.11.x.

### Changes:

This release only contains [2 additional commits](https://github.com/akka/akka/pull/22835) over its predecessor
to resolve the Accept header vulnerability.

## Credits

One critical issue was closed since 2.4.11.1.

The complete list of closed issues can be found on the [2.4.11.2](https://github.com/akka/akka/milestone/113?closed=1)
milestone on github.

Happy hakking!

– The Akka Team