---
layout: post
title: Akka 2.1.2 Released!
author: Björn Antonsson
short: Scala 2.10.1, True Javadoc generated with GenJavaDoc
category: news
redirect_from: /news/2013/03/15/akka-2.1.2-released
tags: [releases]
---

Dear hAkkers,

We—the Akka committers—are pleased to be able to announce the availability of ***Akka 2.1.2***. This is the second maintenance release of the 2.1 branch, where the main changes are that it was built and tested against ***Scala 2.10.1*** and that it comes with true Javadoc generated by the GenJavaDoc plugin.

*This release is backwards binary compatible with version 2.1.0, and 2.1.1, which means that the new JARs are a drop-in replacement for the old ones (but not the other way around). Always make sure to use at least the latest version required by any of your project’s dependencies.*

### Known Issues

Due to the restriction imposed by binary compatibility—which is kept for the patch releases within a minor release such as 2.1.x—not all known issues can be fixed. The currently known issues in the 2.1.x series are:

* ActorSystem.shutdown() does not terminate all threads if akka.remote.netty.use-dispatcher-for-io is set to true

### Migrating from Older Releases

When migrating an existing project from Akka 2.0.x please have a look at our [migration guide from 2.0 to 2.1](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.1.2/project/migration-guide-2.0.x-2.1.x.html)

When migrating from the Akka 1.3.x series please follow first the [migration guide towards version 2.0.5](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.0.5/project/migration-guide-1.3.x-2.0.x.html)

### About the Cluster Support

The “akka-cluster” module is published under the name “akka-cluster-experimental” to emphasize that its status is not yet final. This denomination is not due to sub-par standard of the module; the cluster support has been tested thoroughly and it works as documented. The reason for the “experimental” tag is that this rather important module is now presented to the general public for the first time, and although we have received valuable feedback from early adopters we anticipate possible API changes in order to meet all of your requirements. Work is continuing on Akka’s cluster support, and we will formally declare it officially supported and stable with the next major release—Akka 2.2 ‘Coltrane’. Please help us make it the best possible solution by continuing to give feedback on the mailing list and telling us what can be improved.

### IMPORTANT NOTICE

The artifacts comprising this release candidate have been published to https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/ and also to Maven Central. In addition, we adopted the sbt standard of encoding the Scala binary version in the artifact name, i.e. the core actor package’s artifactId is “akka-actor_2.10”.


### 2.1.2 compared to 2.1.1:

* 5 tickets closed
* 49 files changed, 361 insertions(+), 287 deletions(-)
* … and a total of 3 committers!

Fixed Tickets:

* ***3120*** - Make Address only accept the akka protocol
* ***3145*** - Enable javadoc generation
* ***3153*** - ByteString: do not slice length zero
* ***3155*** - DOC: Change HTTP section

Credits:

    commits added removed
        8     330     269 Roland Kuhn
        4      62      40 Björn Antonsson
        2       4       4 Viktor Klang

Happy hAkking!