---
layout: post
title: Akka 2.3.5 Released!
author: Patrik Nordwall
short: Akka 2.3.5 Released
category: news
redirect_from: /news/2014/08/14/akka-2.3.5-released.html
tags: [releases]
---

*Dear hAkkers,*

We—the Akka committers—are pleased to be able to announce the availability of Akka 2.3.5. This is the fifth maintenance release of the 2.3 branch. This release contains a few improvements and one new feature:

 - Fix bug in Akka I/O TCP pullMode. Contributed by Johannes Rudolph.
 - A new router with the purpose to decrease latency by performing redundant queries to multiple routees. Contributed by Krzysztof Janosz.
   Detailed information can be found in the [documentation for Scala](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.5/scala/routing.html#TailChoppingPool_and_TailChoppingGroup)
   or [documentation for Java](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.5/java/routing.html#TailChoppingPool_and_TailChoppingGroup) of the tail chopping router.
 - Improve send order of AtLeastOnceDelivery after restart/recovery.

Akka 2.3.5 is released for Scala 2.10.4 and 2.11.2. This release is backwards binary compatible with version 2.3.4 which means that the new JARs are a drop-in replacement for the old one (but not the other way around) as long as your build does not enable the inliner (Scala-only restriction). Always make sure to use at least the latest version required by any of your project’s dependencies.

### Migrating from Older Relases ###

When migrating an existing project from Akka 2.2.x please have a look at the [migration guide](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.3.5/project/migration-guide-2.2.x-2.3.x.html).

### Additional Release Details ###

The artifacts comprising this release have been published to https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/ and also to Maven Central. In addition, we adopted the sbt standard of encoding the Scala binary version in the artifact name, i.e. the core actor package’s artifactId is “akka-actor_2.10”.

The complete list of closed tickets can be found in the [2.3.5 github issues milestone](https://github.com/akka/akka/issues?q=milestone%3A2.3.5+is%3Aclosed).

#### Credits ####

    commits added removed
       13    1522     151 Konrad 'ktoso' Malawski
        3     112     112 Patrik Nordwall
        1       7       0 John Ulric
        1     630      26 Krzysztof Janosz
        1      53      37 Michal Knapik
        1     246       2 Michal Rus
        1       1       1 Stanislav Savulchik
        1       4       6 gfaerie
        1      38       9 Johannes Rudolph
        1       1       1 LeonardMeyer
        1       8       7 Pavel Zalunin
        1       6       2 Roland Kuhn
        1       1       1 kerr
        1       6       4 Viktor Klang
        1       1       1 Konrad Malawski
        1       1       1 Duarte Nunes

*Happy hAkking!*
