---
layout: post
title: Akka HTTP 10.0.13 Released!
author: Konrad 'ktoso' Malawski
short: We are happy to announce the 10.0.13 maintenance release of Akka HTTP
category: news
tags: [releases]
---

Dear hakkers,

We are sorry about shipping a slight mistake in yesterday's 10.0.12 release. 

While the released binaries are correct and are valid to use, our backporting process has proven to be too eager, and one 
build change which should not have been backported to the 10.0 series accidentally made it past review and testing: 

In Akka HTTP 10.1 the Akka dependency is marked as `provided` ([details explained here](https://akka.io/blog/news/2018/03/08/akka-http-10.1.0-released#akka-is-not-an-explicit-dependency-anymore--removal-of-akka-24-support)). This change makes it easier 
for end users to understand that the Akka version can be updated independently, and "faster" if needed, than the Akka 
HTTP dependency. However, this change in dependencies should not have been backported to the 10.0 series, as it can
cause users which relied on Akka HTTP "bringing in Akka" as transitive dependency to break their builds. While this is 
simple to fix by explicitly depending on akka-stream (which is recommended), it is not a change and nuisance that we can 
impose on our 10.0 users. 

The 10.0.13 release follows immediately after the 10.0.12 release of yesterday, and addresses only this single build / 
dependency issue, otherwise being the exact same artifacts, so please refer to the [10.0.12 release annoucement](https://akka.io/blog/news/2018/03/22/akka-http-10.0.12-released) 
for more information.

## Credits

We would like to thank Lightbend's Monitoring team for reporting this failure early, such that we were able to minimise its impact on the community.
We will continue to improve our testing infrastructure to catch such mistakes early.

A single issue was closed since 10.0.12: [Revert "!pro make akka-actor / akka-stream a provided dependency (#1582)" #1960](https://github.com/akka/akka-http/pull/1960) 

The complete list of closed issues can be found on the [10.0.13](https://github.com/akka/akka-http/milestone/37?closed=1) 
milestone on github.

For this release we had the help of 1 contributor;

```
commits  added  removed
      1     31       22 Konrad Malawski
```

Happy hakking!

– The Akka Team

